Hello and welcome back to the course and Tablo.
And today we will be looking at the data set for this section of the course.
So let's get straight to it.
We're going to need a browser.
And here we're going to go to superdog whoops dot science dot com slash Tablo and now we're going to
scroll down find Section 3 so we're looking at time series aggregation and filters.
Interesting.
OK.
So long term unemployment statistics.
That's right click save link as as we usually do into our folder I'm going to bring that folder up Tablo
of course.
There it is long term unemployment statistics and let's open up and have a look.
And once again if you if you are if you don't have Microsoft Excel then feel free to install open office.
It's a free piece of software which works on both Windows and Mac and you'll be able to view these files
there.
OK.
So as you can see the format of the file is very different to just going zoom in a bit to what we saw
in the previous section.
So here we have a lot of like duplicate records in each or in many of the columns so for instance the
period here for the period is repeated.
So here we've got January many times and we've got February many times march many times.
Then we've got the generator.
So for January we've got six and seven.
One two three four five six seven rows of four men and seven roles for women.
And then the same thing happens for February 7 and 7 and so on.
And then for men we have the split into the age group 16 to 19 20 24 and so on and all the way up to
65 years and over.
And then for each one of these roles we've got and a number of unemployed people.
So in that age group of that gender in that period of time as though this is a very non-human like way
to structure daughter it's not something that like you would expect to see if you're given a list.
A an Excel spreadsheet to just look at it's not how you take an information very quickly and efficiently.
So what's humans are more used to is looks a bit different and it wouldn't have all these duplicate
records it would look.
This is kind of a pivoted view.
As humans we are more used to unpermitted use and I've got an example of that which I'm just going to
bring up now so that we can compare.
So tell me if this looks a bit better.
So here you can see age.
So the groups the age groups.
And then you've got the year and then you've got men and women.
So if you need to look something up you're going to quickly go OK.
So if I need March 2005 men in the age 40 to 45 say March 2005 men age 40 to 45 they are there.
So as easy as that.
And it's kind of more natural for people to look at this.
But for machines for computers it's more natural to look at this because they know exactly where to
find everything and it's just faster.
And it's just more of a machine format.
So this data is already structured in this format which is going to be easy to import into Tablo So
this is easy.
This is going to be would be much harder to import into Tablo.
But don't worry we are not going to focus on that right now.
We will talk about structuring and preparing your data in a separate section of courses.
It's a massive topic and we're going to devote a whole section to it so we'll do that further down in
this course.
But for now I'll just work with this data set that we have here which is our unemployment office.
So I've downloaded that let's close the spreadsheets.
Let's open up Tablo.
There we go.
And here you can see our previous two workbooks that we worked on.
So let's connect our data source.
Let's go to excel.
Long term unemployment statistics open up and there we go so it's in sheet 1 and there is a preview
of our daughter looks good.
What are we going to do now is we just going to goto work book.
So we've actually connected to the data.
There it is.
However now I will show you one more thing a new new element to work with Dora and that is working with
extracts.
So you see this pattern here.
You can actually connect to this data but extract it right away.
So also you can do that while you're in the workbook and you can do it from the worksheet and we're
going to do that so move back to your worksheet without you know doing any kind of creating a dashboards
just right click on the data and go to extract data.
And so what this does is it creates an extract for Tablo to work from.
So basically instead of connecting lives to a daughter the daughter is going to be extracted into a
separate file and then is going to be kept there.
So we're going to collect extract and here you can choose where to save this file to save it in the
same folder.
Click Save.
And now you can see that the Iken has changed.
It's got this little arrow and if you right click it says use extract.
Now if we go to the folder which is here you can see that there's a new file that has been created sheet
one long term unemployment statistics.
So this is the extract so our daughter from here is now being kept in here.
So this is like a copy of the data and if you open it up you won't see anything really sickly because
it's Tablo table formats that it keeps in its own way.
So what happens now is if you change anything in this file in the file we originally connected to then
nothing will change in your work.
So if you change the data you will still have the old daughter in your extract.
So it might be a good thing might be a bad thing if you don't want your daughter to change after you've
connected for the first time.
That's a good thing.
If you want to keep your data updated to the original data source which doesn't have to be an Excel
spreadsheet could be a database could be a CACP file could be anything.
Then you can do that as well so you go to Tablo and right click here you click extract and you refresh.
And then here gives you a question.
You say yes and your daughter is refreshed.
So why would you use extracts.
Well it's quite simple.
We're still working with small data sets.
But when you start working with big data sets or dynamic Datta says that often change using the live
connection might be slow and it might not be reliable it might it might be constantly changing might
be hard to work with.
So that's when you create an extract you do your work and then you decide whether you need to return
to the live connection or keep working with the extra.
And if you want to return to live connection you can always do that just right click and uncheck use
extract and then right away you can see now we're using the normal connection again and that's how you
work with extracts and Tablo.
So for us in this particular example doesn't matter.
We're just going to keep using the extract because our daughter is not going to be changing.
We don't really mind what we're going to be using going forward in this tutorial and that's all for
today.
I look forward to seeing you next time when we will be looking at work you have time series.
Until then happy analyzing.